Modified to run in Hume-Sunday testbed by Tommi Hirvola

This is the code for the average optimal multiple approximate string
matching algorithm, by Kimmo Fredriksson and Gonzalo Navarro. See the
papers in CPM'03, CPM'04 and JEA for details. The code is by Kimmo
Fredriksson. The code can be freely used for academic/reasearch/teaching
purposes. Commercial use is not permitted without explicit written
permission from the authors.

Installation/running:

- Unzip/untar the package.
- Say 'make all'
- Run the program by saying 'cmfn', which gives you the list of 
  command line options. 

The code was written for research purposes, and not for end users. This 
means in particular that there is no manual, and the code is probably 
not very readable. The error checking is minimal, so you can probably feed
it non-sensible parameters, and get non-sensible results if it doesn't 
crash. To get started, try something like:

cmfn -D -f dna-file -r dna-patterns -B -Sb -k1 -t8 -v

-D: the alphabet is DNA alphabet 
-f dna-file: search from the file 'dna-file'
-r dna-patterns: the patterns, one per line, are read from file 'dna-patterns'
-B -Sb: selects the best algorithm (for most cases)
-k1: allows 1 error in the matches
-t8: use 8-grams (ell-grams in the research papers)
-v: be verbose

Many more options are possible, but beware that not all combinations are
supported/work.

For proteins use -P, for ASCII use (e.g.) -A, combined with -Tx, where
x is the number of character groups, e.g. -A -T16 to reduce the alphabet 
size to 16. Note that the smaller the value is, the faster is the 
preprocessing, but the filter becomes less strict. On the other hand, for 
smaller -T values you can afford to use larger -t (ell-gram) values. 
Conseptually -A -T4 would correspond to -D.

The code was tested using patterns that are all of the same lenght. As I 
recall, the code shouldn't assume this, but it is not tested. In any case,
the running time (i.e. the shift) is bounded by the shortest pattern, so 
if the patterns are wildly different lenghts, it is better to group them 
in roughly similar length sub groups, and search them separately.

Feel free to email your comments/bug reports/etc. to kf@iki.fi.

Kimmo Fredriksson

